 said Maggie McNeill, a retired call girl.

Last week, Donald Trump was found guilty on all 34 counts in his hush money trial after a jury unanimously agreed he had falsified business records to cover up allegations of an affair with adult film star Stormy Daniels.

Daniels’ credibility on the witness stand became a linchpin in the prosecution’s case.

 David Ring, a partner at Taylor & Ring in Los Angeles, told Newsweek during the trial.

Despite Trump’s lawyers’ best efforts to slut-shame Daniels and portray her as someone trying to shake down a powerful man by selling a fabricated, salacious story, in the end, the jury found Daniels’ testimony convincing. That felt especially gratifying ― even vindicating ― to fellow porn actors and sex workers, communities that have long been marginalized and stigmatized in U.S. society.

 said Maggie McNeill, a retired sex worker and the author of the blog The Honest Courtesan.

Though she admits it might be aiming high, McNeil wonders if Daniels’ impressive comportment at the trial will change the conversation surrounding sex work.

 she said. 

You have to admire someone who knows they are going to be crucified in the court of public opinion, but still stands up to it anyway.Ember Snow, an adult film star

 Ember Snow, a porn actress who’s been in the industry for seven years, told HuffPost.

 Snow said.

 the adult film star said.

Jesse Sage, a sex worker and writer of a weekly sex column in the Pittsburgh City Paper, said that a lot of sex workers ― herself included ― celebrated the fact that 

Sage told HuffPost, 

Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, said she wore a bulletproof vest to the courthouse in light of death threats she’s received.

 she told Good Morning Britain on Tuesday. 

Daniels’ two days on trial were arguably the most tense, and certainly the most attention-grabbing, of the all the witness testimonies: On day one, Daniels described her odd, alleged sexual encounter with Trump in a Lake Tahoe hotel room in 2006 ― a meetup that happened months after Melania Trump gave birth to son Barron.

The  date would be no dinner, including Trump saying that Daniels reminded him of his daughter, Ivanka Trump. At another point, the adult film star said she playfully slapped Trump  with a magazine after he bragged about being featured in it

 Daniels said she told Trump. 

Stormy Daniels leaves the Manhattan Criminal Court on May 09, 2024 in New York City. The porn actress and director reportedly wore a bulletproof vest to court, in response to death threats.

On day two, prosecutors endeavored to discredit Daniels, painting her as money-hungry and vindictive.

When Trump’s attorney, Susan Necheles, invoked Daniels’ pornographic past to the jury, accusing the actress of  as an exotic dancer as her anti-Trump profile increased, Daniels held her own

 Necheles taunted, implying Daniels’ encounter with Trump was falsified.

 Daniels replied. 

Later, she quipped that if her story about sex with Trump 

A  Moment For Some Women

Given Trump’s sordid history with women, many online noted how cathartic it was to see this trial’s outcome, especially after E. Jean Carroll, who accused Trump of raping her in the 1990s, defeated him twice in civil trials for defamation.

Emily Ratajkowski ― a model who’s written candidly about her own experiences with sexual assault in Hollywood ― signaled her support by wearing a Stormy Daniels graphic T-shirt on the streets of New York City on the day of the verdict.

Model Emily Ratajkowski was seen wearing a Stormy Daniels tee shirt on May 30, 2024 in New York City.

Daniels, too, feels  by the trial’s outcome, her husband, Barrett Blade, told CNN’s Erin Burnett last week. He added that she’s  the ruling and knows the hush-money case ultimately isn’t about her.

Sage, the sex worker and writer, hopes that Daniels can have some semblance of peace in the aftermath of the trial. She admits that reading transcripts from the trial and watching the recent Peacock documentary on Daniels has tapped into some of her own trauma.

 Sage said.

Daniels said she stayed and even met up with Trump again because he was suggested there might be an opportunity to appear on his reality TV series 

On the stand, the adult film star maintained that the 2006 Tahoe sexual liaison with Trump was consensual (albeit not very pleasant), but new, alarming details emerged, too, from that night: She claimed that Trump stood between her and the door at one point and that she  and stared up at the ceiling during the encounter, wondering 

As New York Times contributing opinion writer Jessica Bennett wrote, 

Sage found the moment sobering, too, but also worth highlighting: Globally, one 2014 study found that sex workers have a 45- 75% chance of experiencing sexual violence on the job.

 Sage explained. 

Sage added, 

Stormy Daniels at the  premiere as part of SXSW 2024 Conference and Festivals held at the Stateside Theatre on March 8, 2024 in Austin, Texas.

Daniels has said she never wanted to be in the spotlight for something so sordid ― in the Peacock documentary, she says she accepted hush money from Trump because she was  for her life. She also still owes the former president half a million dollars in legal fees ― a debt resulting from a failed defamation case brought by Daniels against Trump in 2018.

Looking at the bigger picture, though, the way Daniels has carried herself has gone a long way to affirm the dignity and humanity of those who engage in sex work, said Antonia Crane, an author, activist and sex worker.

 Crane said. 

Crane said she recorded Daniels’ interview on  with Anderson Cooper back in 2018 as a reminder that a fellow stripper and adult performer could insist on being heard and believed.

 Crane added, 

Related...

Stormy Daniels Sends Stark Message To Melania Trump

Stormy Daniels' Husband Says 'It's A Big Weight Off Her Shoulders' After Trump Verdict

Stephen Colbert’s Audience Goes Wild With 1 Brutally Honest Message For Trump
