
Cassie shouted, "HALLO, DADDY! I'm going to punched you in the foice!

Get ready because here comes the pain-bang!" winding up her fist and socking him right in the kisser!

Daddy sobbed, “Why for you punch me? Your ‘daddÆ’!? Now I cry in corner.

I naked and afraid, with my clothes folded and stacked neatly next to me.”, while he rocked back and forth in the foetal position. He felt ashamed as he sobbed, “Father to son.

Father to son.

Father to — son...”, eventually he ended up a shrivelled into a raisin, due to all the moisture from his body being cried out of his tear ducts.

Cassie replied resolutely, “It's tough—love! BABY! Isn't it!” 💪🏽😘💪🏽

Then, she gave a list of reasons — and non-sensical price estimates, or discounts — for the season:
1. Jesus (£0.99 or £1)
2. Ham Sandwich (£100)
3. Couch Gun (£99.99)
4. Christos'/Christos’ büger-månchë (USD$9,999.99); and
5. Houdini’s mother-in-law’s sister's niece's husband, ‘wHo-dean-eeee’ (30°C for 30% off).

Daddy thought to himself for a moment, then posited the question, “Would you be so kind as to? As to ‘ahemmm’!? If you know what I mean?
And you do know what I mean? Eh? Eh? Ahhhh...”, this he asked her while jabbing her in her ribs with his elbow, first gently, and a little harder each time, until he felt his elbow crack, “Ribs of steel.
Ribs of steel!
Ribs — of — STEEL!!!”, he screamed while writhing in agony on the floor, until he broke down into a maniacal laughter. The same type of laughter, you can only ever hear when a father's pride for his one and only daughter has surpassed humanity's upper limits.

You've never heard it before; however, when you hear it, you know exactly what it is and why you are hearing it.

Daddy looked Cassie in her eyes and proudly affirmed, “It's tough—love! BABY! Yes it is!” 💪🏽😘💪🏽

Then they galloped off into the sunrise, never daring to blink, until their maculas roasted in their sockets, frying their retinas to a crisp and leaving their photoreceptors to permanently wither away like dried tears of joy.
